Advanced Placement Computer Science A

Computer science embraces problem solving, hardware, algorithms and perspectives that help people utilize
computers to solve real-world problems in everyday life. The AP Computer Science A course introduces students
to computer science with fundamental topics that include problem solving, design strategies and methodologies,
organization of data (data structures), approaches to processing data (algorithms), analysis of potential solutions,
and the ethical and social implications of computing. The course emphasizes both object-oriented and imperative
problem solving and design. These techniques represent proven approaches for development solutions that can
scale up from small, simple problems to large, complex problems.
By the end of this course, students will be able to:
● Design and implement computer-based solutions to problems.
● Use and implement commonly used algorithms and data structures.
● Develop and select appropriate algorithms and data structures to solve new problems.
● Write solutions fluently in an object-oriented paradigm
● Write, run, test and debug solutions in the Java programming language
● Read and understand programs consisting of several classes and interacting objects
● Read and understand a description of the design and development process
● Understand the ethical and social implications of computer use.
Project STEM’s course is endorsed by the College Board and an authorized AP® Computer Science A course.

Prerequisites
This course requires a strong foundation in English and mathematics. Students must be comfortable with
functions and the concepts found in the uses of functional notation. Prior computer programming experience is not
required.

Teaching Strategies
The course will consist of video lectures, daily programming exercises, longer coding assignments, and regular
quizzes and exams. Students will also participate in online discussion forums. By the end of the course, students
will be well prepared to take the AP® Computer Science A exam.
Each lesson listed below includes practice exercises, including shorter coding problems. Well over 20 hours of
instructional time is spent in hands-on coding using the course coding exercises, lab assignments and AP labs.
Students participate regularly in a moderated discussion forum that provides support for lesson material and also
introduces discussions of the ethical implications of programming.

I would like to teach this course because I received college level education and PD courses to teach it. Also students in my school take Intro to Python and 
have some knowledge about text based programminig in Python.
